## Description
Sampling algorithm for high dimensional spaces with complex, non-linear constraints.

## Usage example
$ python ./sampler.py <input_file> <output_file> <n_results>

## Inputs
The input file has to have the following structure:
1. A single line header that gives the dimensionality of the problem, which is defined on the unit hypercube. 
2. The next line is a single example feasible point. 
3. The remaining lines are a list of constraints as python expressions containing + , - , * , / , and ** operators. They have to be transformed to take the form g(x) >= 0.0. 

## Output
The output file contains a list of vectors (one vector per line, <n_results> lines total).

## Install
Dependencies: Python3, numpy, scipy.

Test environment with the required dependencies can be created using conda from the provided .yml file: <br>
$ conda env create -f sampler_env.yml

and activated using the following command: <br>
$ conda activate sampler_env

## Sampling algorithm
This library uses a two-stage approach:
1. During the 1st stage a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approach is used to generate the initial sample population. A known valid point (from line 2 of the input file) is used as a seed, and each next point is generated by adding a random offset to one of the known valid points. The max offset size is adaptive: it is increased each time a new valid point is found, and decreased when the proposed new point fails to satisfy at least one of the constraints.

2. During the 2nd stage the quality of the results is improved by maximizing the minimal distance between any two points in the population. This is achieved by solving the closest pair problem and trying to replace one of the points in that pair with a new valid random sample. The old point is replaced only if doing so increases the minimal distance. By default, this process is repeated <n_results> or 1000 times, whichever is greater.

## License
MIT: https://mit-license.org/
